---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to Jekyll!"
date:   2015-02-21 15:19:04
categories: jekyll update
---

sasasjsdddddddddddddddddd
Home
How to easily use Google Fonts with Sass
May 19, 2014
CSS
132 Shares
Like
Share
Share
By Josh Medeski

In this post, we are going to explore open source fonts and CSS pre-processing.

I am going to give you an easy way to add web fonts to any website in just a few lines of code.
What are Google Fonts?

Google Fonts makes it quick and easy for everyone to use web fonts.

Google Fonts is a collection of open source fonts that are hosted on Google’s servers and with their API, it is easy for anyone to integrate their fonts into any web project. Best of all, it’s free. (To learn more and explore the hundreds of fonts available, check out the Google Fonts website.)


What is SASS?

Sass is the most mature, stable, and powerful professional grade CSS extension language in the world.

Sass is a pre-processing language with features extending regular CSS, like variables, nesting, imports, mixing and more. Many frameworks are built with Sass, including Foundation, Susy, Compass, and many more.

To learn more about using Sass in your projects, check out WebdesignerDepot’s Beginner’s guide to Sass.


Using them together

Now that you have a basic understanding of Google Fonts and Sass, it’s time to learn how to use the two together.
Pick your font(s)

The first step is to choose your font. Explore the Google Fonts website and when you decide on a font, click the “Add to Collection” button.
googlesass_001

Once you have all of your desired fonts for your website, click the “Use” button on the bottom right of the page.
googlesass_002

Next, pick out your desired font weights and character sets. Only select the items you need, as too many weights and sets can slow down your website. Keep this page open, because in the next step you are going to use the code in items 3 and 4 (Adding code, and integrating the fonts).
Sass variables

A variable in Sass is created with a $ symbol and can be reused in your styling.

// Variables
$font-stack: Helvetica, sans-serif;
$primary-color: #2ba6cb;

// Styles
.button {
font-family: $font-stack;
background-color: $primary-color;
}

When the Sass file is processed, it replaces the defined variables with the appropriate CSS. This is a simple example, but with bigger projects it becomes really helpful to keep everything consistent.

.button {
font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
background-color: #2ba6cb;
}

Now that we have a basic understanding of variables, we are going import the Google Font stylesheet, create a variable for each font, and use the fonts in our styling:

// Google Fonts
@import url(http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto+Slab|Open+Sans:400italic,700italic,400,700);

// Font Variables
$roboto-slab: 'Roboto Slab', serif;   
$open-sans: 'Open Sans', sans-serif;

// Styles
body {
font-family: $body-font;
font-weight: normal;
}
h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
font-family: $header-font;
font-weight: normal;
}

.button {
font-family: $roboto-slab;
font-weight: bold;
}


Conclusion

Here are a few things to remember:

Only import the weights and character sets you need.
Make sure your font weights are defined in the import function and in your Sass.
Use the @import function not the Standard. Linking the stylesheet in your HTML will cause your website to make more requests and you will be missing out on the power of pre-processing.
Create a system that makes sense to you. If you need to change the font family or weight, you need to create a simple structure that is easy to make your way back to.
Always compress your outputted CSS. You should never have to reference the CSS files while coding, because all of your work should be done in Sass. Compressed CSS will give you the smallest file size and a faster website.

I hope you found this helpful for using these two tools together. Remember, this is just an example of how to implement these two systems together.
Author: Josh Medeski
Josh Medeski is a freelance web designer, front-end developer, and writer. You can follow him on twitter and check out his website where he guides entrepreneurs in understanding technology and design.

Jan

Doesn’t many people say, never use CSS import?
http://wedodev.com RJ McCollam

If your output CSS file still does an @import call for Google Fonts that is still a request being made the same as if you linked to it in your head. I might be missing some Sass magic, but I don’t think it will save a request.
thefairystamp

Save the Name of the Font as string in a variable – thats not really “using google fonts with sass”. Thanks for taking the time to write this, but if people know how to use the very basics of sass, they know how to do that.
p@

@import is not better than the standard function https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/best-practices/rendering#PutCSSInHead
http://www.russellbishop.co.uk/ Russell Bishop

“If your output CSS file still does an @import call for Google Fonts that is still a request being made the same as if you linked to it in your head.”
http://robert-deluca.com/ Robert DeLuca

It’s actually considered worse to link the fonts in the stylesheet since it blocks the rest of the stylesheet from downloading.
Tim Hettler

You should take this idea to the next logical step: Store the fonts you want to use in a list, then loop through that list to create a dynamic Google Font URL to import.
var = DivisiveCotton

Using CSS @import?! Big performance no no
Akash Soti

Thanks Man!!

Popular posts
This Week
Last Week Last Month
Introducing Perch CMS
37 Shares
Like
Testing email with targeted.io
46 Shares
Like
In the search of perfect WordPress theme: what to look for and what to avoid
75 Shares
Like
Using jQuery to add a dynamic "Back To Top" floating button with smooth scroll
155 Shares
Like
30 most useful jQuery plugins
161 Shares
Like
Latest tweets
Testing email with targeted.io http://t.co/x09fz4FTTB
Introducing Perch CMS http://t.co/8U4zBKk5l2
In the search of perfect WordPress theme: what to look for and what to avoid http://t.co/cH2OfEEgaP
How to store temporary cached data with WordPress transients http://t.co/TdAcmDtHf7
Essential tools for modern web development http://t.co/LUQyQ8mbQa
Control vertical rhythm using Sass and Compass http://t.co/S3O9SYsQ22
Home About Contact

Categories Tags RSS Legal
Tweet
